# Wine-vinification
Wine making, also known as vinification, is the process of producing wine, starting from the selection of fruit (typically grapes), its fermentation, and the bottling of the finished product. This art form of a process stretches over millennium with the first documented instances being around since between 5000 - 5400 BC. The process has been perfected and celebrated over the years while at the same time, the finished product itself has been beloved and held both religiously and socially sacred ever since. And as the process has grown, the classification of wine has evolved as well.
Today, the 100 point scale is what is widely used with top rated wines usually rating above 90. The finalized ranking is typically the average of all the points given to that wine. The tasters are usually looking at taste and physical features such as color, sugar-level, growing method, and climate that the fruits are grown in. The tastings are usually done blindly in order to prevent any bias towards brands, vineyards or winemakers. And while the taste features are important, the taster’s own personal preference will always bias their ranking. That got our group thinking of alternative ways that the wine could in theory be ranked. We were curious about what the chemical composition did to the wine classification.
Using multinomial regression analysis, we will create a model to predict the wine class. We will train our multinomial regression analysis model over a hundred iterations. After training the data, we will split the data into thirty percent for training and seventy percent for testing the data in order to predict the wine classes.
